FSU test tooling — what exists, what it found, what is left
2026-09-12


THE CHECKS

Run them all with `npx playwright test` from fsu-tests. The four console tools also run by
hand on the iPad: open the app, paste the file into the console. That is how they are meant
to be used away from a desk.

The app is two pages now — index.html is the van, scenes.html is the scene — so every
check below is against one page or the other, and the console tools see only the page
they are pasted into. They share one record, so a check can seed on one page and read it
back on the other. Where a check needs a view that lives on the far side, the address
carries it: scenes.html#v=sketch&ref=new is how every sketch check starts.

sweep.js        Was already here. Switches through each view of the page it is run on,
                looking for render errors, NaN in a symbol, duplicate ids, page-level
                overflow, and a data- attribute with no handler behind it. The symbol
                tables are on the scene page only, so a run against the van page reports
                zero symbols rather than checking 142 of them — see WHAT IS LEFT.

crawl.js        Presses every control in every view, and one level into any sheet a control
                opens. Reports a nav control whose target view is missing or that lands
                somewhere else, a handler that throws, and a button that does nothing.
                Saved state and the open item, sketch, incident, bay and compartment are
                snapshotted and put back after every click. Controls that delete, export,
                send or sign are named, not pressed. Run against each page in turn. It
                judges a nav control by looking for #v-<target> in the current document,
                so the tabs that cross to the other page (Scenes from the van, Home from
                the scene) read as dead routes to it — see WHAT IS LEFT.

visible.js      Layout audit per view at the current window size, checked at the top of the
                page and again at the bottom. Anything outside the window horizontally,
                content cut off by a hidden overflow, a control with something on top of it,
                a control with text that takes no space, and controls under the tap size.
                A sticky header or fixed tab bar scrolling over content is not counted: that
                is how scrolling works.

contrast.js     The WCAG ratio for every piece of text against the background behind it.
                Prints, never fails a run: which colour to change is a design call.

fsu-tests/tests/          (van = index.html, scene = scenes.html)
  fsu.spec.js       Was already here. The render sweep at four widths in both schemes on the
                    van, and the sketch flows on the scene: measurement maths, walls,
                    placement, ink, marquee, layers, DXF and PDF export, the save-failure
                    bar, case package round trip, undo after a reload.
  ui.spec.js        The crawl and the layout audit, at 1500 and 1280 for a desktop and
                    1194x834 and 834x1194 for an iPad either way up, in Chromium and in
                    WebKit, which is the engine Safari uses. Both run once against the van
                    and once against the scene, and seed whichever half of the app the page
                    they are on actually carries.
  contrast.spec.js  The contrast report in both schemes. Van.
  keyboard.spec.js  Tab moves through every view, focus is visible wherever it lands, a
                    sheet can be left with Escape, and the keyboard stays inside a sheet
                    while it is up. Van.
  offline.spec.js   The worker takes over, the page opens with the network cut, an incident
                    started and a compartment checked offline survive a reload, and every
                    file the page asks for is in the cache. Van; the worker precaches both
                    pages, so the scene page opens offline too.
  print.spec.js     The compartment map, the labels sheet and the install sheet fit inside
                    a letter page, and the map really renders as a PDF. Van.
  storage.spec.js   localStorage is filled to the quota: a refused write raises the red bar,
                    nothing disappears from the running app, and the bar clears and the data
                    saves once there is room again. Van.
  migration.spec.js A record written under van3, vaninv2 or vaninv still loads, an old
                    record gains this version's stock forms without losing the unit's own,
                    and a case package goes out and comes back whole. Scene, because that is
                    where the case package lives.
  sync.spec.js      GitHub is stubbed, so no token and no network: a file changed by another
                    device is reported and never silently overwritten, pushing over theirs
                    takes a second deliberate act, pulling takes their version whole, and a
                    lapsed token says so. Scene, though what it syncs is van data — the two
                    pages share one record and sync.js is built into both.
  clock.spec.js     Every warning in the app is a date subtraction, and a flag may only
                    change at local midnight: expiry, service due, verification a year old,
                    the token countdown across the end of daylight saving, the six-hour nag
                    about an unpackaged sketch. Scene.
  sketch-geom.spec.js  Triangulation, baseline offset and bearing solved against arithmetic
                    done in the spec, a marker measured at its spike, a rotated object's
                    anchor, a room typed off a tape, lengths read back as typed. Scene.
  marker-migrate.spec.js  A marker drawn before the symbol changed is stretched about its
                    tip and put back on its tape distances. Scene.
  model.spec.js     Model-based random testing: a plain model of items, compartments,
                    incidents and one sketch's objects, driven through a few hundred seeded
                    actions and compared after every one. Fixed seed, printed on every run.
                    Scene.
  corrupt.spec.js   A damaged record is written under van3 and the app has to boot anyway,
                    throw nothing and put something on screen, keeping whatever half of the
                    record was still readable. Each case loads on the page its damage
                    belongs to.
  destructive.spec.js  The delete paths the crawl names but will not press: an incident, a
                    sketch, an item, a compartment, and clearing the sample van. Each takes
                    what it says and leaves everything beside it standing. Both pages.
  security.spec.js  Free text is text — nothing a name contains can run, and punctuation
                    comes back character for character — and the GitHub token is in no file
                    the app writes out and on no screen. Both pages.
  data-lint.spec.js A lint over the record the app ships rather than over the code: no two
                    compartments sharing a code, no item in a compartment that does not
                    exist, every date and quantity parsable, every compartment in a named
                    bay. Van.
  pages.spec.js     The split itself. Presses every crossing the way a user does — Quick
                    sketch, the Scenes tab, Settings from the scene, a document row on an
                    incident — and checks where it lands and that the address carries the
                    record, so a reload holds. Then: a stale or nonsense #v=/ref= address
                    opens on something rather than a blank screen; two pages open at once do
                    not write over each other's record; every view is built into exactly one
                    page and src/pages.js agrees with both, with no control anywhere naming a
                    view that does not exist; both manifests resolve and the worker precaches
                    both pages, which then open with the network cut.
  bulk.spec.js      600 extra items and 40 sketches, rendered at a quarter speed to stand in
                    for an older iPad. Budget 200ms a view; the worst today is about 85. Van.
  visual.spec.js    Picture baselines at iPad width in both schemes: Home, Storage and Items
                    on the van, the incident list, an incident and a sketch on the scene.
                    Skipped on CI, where another machine's font rendering would fail every
                    run. After a deliberate change:
                    npx playwright test tests/visual.spec.js --update-snapshots


WHAT THEY FOUND, AND WHAT WAS CHANGED

curForm was never declared, and app.js is in strict mode, so opening any form in Templates
threw before the sheet could show. One declaration. Found by the crawl on its first run.

A sheet was not a focus trap: with a sheet up, Tab walked straight out into the page behind
it. openSheet now moves focus into the sheet and Tab cycles inside it while it is up.
Escape already closed the sheet and still does.

On a sync clash the app set the flag and re-drew the Sync screen, but never the bar or the
pill, so unless you happened to be on that screen you were not told that another device had
changed the van list. The conflict branch now raises both.

Contrast: 51 of 1503 pieces of text under AA in light, 24 in dark. Now zero in both, worst
4.40 light and 4.93 dark. Four things changed, all in app.css:
  --ink3 8E8E93 -> 6C6C70 light, 9A9AA0 dark, and --grey with it. This was nearly all of it:
    the grey carries the small print at 10-13px everywhere.
  --amber A96400 -> 8F5400 in light, the unverified warning strip.
  The Sweep tile: white text on solid amber was 2.62. Now near-black through a new --onamber,
    the same choice the amber badge already made.
  Text on a blue fill: white on 57A6FF in dark was 2.53, the worst in the app and the primary
    button. Now near-black through a new --onblue. Light keeps white on 0A62C4 at 5.90.
  The van drawing kept the old grey through a new --metal, so darkening the label colour did
  not repaint the bodywork.

Tap size is reported, never asserted. At iPad width the sidebar toggle is 36x34, "Set your
initials" 91x19, the header gear 87x31 and the side-nav rows 231x43, all just under the 44px
guideline. Gloved hands in a van is where that matters, so they are worth a look, but moving
them is a layout decision and nothing has been moved.

Still reported by the crawl and all correct: Undo and Redo with an empty history, zoom out
at the minimum, a tab that is already active, Home while on Home. They would read better
disabled at their limit, which is a design call.


WHAT IS LEFT

The render sweep on the scene page. It walks the section.view elements of whatever page it
is loaded on, and fsu.spec.js still loads the van. So the scene page's six views and all 142
symbols are outside it at the moment, which is exactly the half the sweep was written for.
One more loop in fsu.spec.js against scenes.html.

The crawl and the cross-page tabs. crawl.js decides a nav control is dead by looking for
#v-<target> in the current document, and the tabs that cross pages point at a view the other
page owns, so it reports Scenes on the van (and Home on the scene) as a dead route. It needs
to ask pages.js — here(v) — before calling a route dead, and to put the page back afterwards,
since pressing that tab navigates.

Two home-screen icons on a real device. Whether iPadOS treats index.html and scenes.html as
one installed app or two, and whether the second icon opens standalone rather than in Safari,
is not something a desktop WebKit build answers.

A real iPad. Everything here runs in Chromium and WebKit on a desktop. The home-screen
shell, the on-screen keyboard, the pencil and Safari's own scrolling are not reproduced by a
desktop WebKit build. Nothing on this list replaces holding the thing in the van.

A real sync drill against the live van-data repo. The stub proves the app's side of a clash.
It does not prove GitHub's, and running it for real needs a token, which belongs on a device
and not in a test file.
